---
description: Unlocking new models of fan engagement, monetization and music distribution
---

# Use Cases

### Royalty Revenues Streamlined On-chain

First and foremost, the OWN protocol accelerates the time it takes an artist to get paid. It also provides a more transparent snapshot of the flow-of-funds and through an open-market dynamic it will ultimately drive the industry to more efficient and reliable forms of payment and usage reporting.&#x20;

### Turning Music IP to a Composable Digital Asset

Apart from fixing the fragmented supply chain that holds the industry together today, OWN enables the tokenizatoin of music IP, effectively generating interoperable digital assets.

OWN brings artists and developers together to create consumer and B2B web3 applications (known as decentralized apps or "dApps") and provide users with an endless array of functionality. The code for dApps is open source, shareable and stackable, giving artists an à la carte experience and making it easy for developers to combine and build upon existing features. (Developers are [rewarded for protocol participation](../protocol/participants/developers.md).)

Each individual dApp has the potential to build an entire eco-system, culture and economy around it. The real power of the OWN network is that assets can independently and simultaneously generate value from different networks of creators and audiences. The vision of the OWN protocol is to provide the open internet with interoperable payment rails for music content with self-enforcing rights and revenue management, as well as transparent ownership and governance records. With OWN, creators continue generating passive income while expanding and enriching their catalog.&#x20;

#### What Does That Mean for the creative community?

Imagine the music industry as a fertile, frictionless environment fostering creativity. This is the world we envision and that is why, just like bridging legacy payment rails with web3 smart contracts, we are highly invested in bridging developer communities with creative communities.&#x20;

With applications built on OWN, artists and their representatives (managers, labels or distributors) can finally have a turnkey solution to distribute their work under their customized terms, and manage royalty collection using web3 workflows which will be settled and enforced automatically. This can all be done permissionlessly by minting their work as an RA (Royalty Asset) smart contract.

For example, an independent producer can mint a beat as a stem (an audible contribution to the final work) as a digital asset; This can happen in two methods:

* Using the OWN protocol to create a unique RA. The RA address is then the recipient of any royalties generated by usage of the asset.
* Using any other web3 music protocol (that may permit usage and royalty collection) and then wrapping that asset (still available via the protocol it was minted in) in a new RA that aggregates all revenue made by the asset into a single address.

A pop artist may incorporate the stem to create a song (agreeing to pay the producer 15% of the song streaming royalties) and distributes the new song to various web2 streaming services. The artist mints the song as an RA including the producer as a royalty recipient (As royalties flow in they are distributed based on the pre-set agreement) in the song RA and automatically funnels 15% of the proceeds to the beat (stem) RA.

The producer later may later choose to sell copies of the original stem on an NFT marketplace, earning royalties from every subsequent resale. The same asset stem might be synced by a VR experience on a Metaverse platform, and the sync licenses it earns are distributed automatically to his beat's RA.

Independently from the producer’s activity, the pop song using the stem may be remixed on another EDM platform, paying the song's RA mechanical royalties, and as those flow in to the song RA the producer’s relative income (15%) continues to flow to his beat RA.&#x20;

The availability of the beat as an RA allows the producer to predetermine usage rights, rates and payment address, adding revenue sources without needing to republish, register or externally enforce integration.

### The Future is Limitless

Some other applications that we envision being built for the OWN protocol:

* **NFT revenue collection** - Distributing customized experiences with unique scarcity models is an emerging theme in the web3 creator economy. The OWN protocol allows rights holders to streamline primary and secondary sales of NFTs directly into their existing workflow.
* **Credit guilds** - Labels or artist collectives to  pool royalty inflows together, allowing fair and transparent savings/lending activity and even simpler models like algorithmic advance rate adjustment. This closed-circle activity can shield creators from the wild-west of DeFi in its nascent years, but still allow them to leverage their collective strength.
* **DeFi tools** - More extensive borrowing, lending and staking can be built based on on-chain financial performance of tokenized music assets; Media assets that carry a semi-predictable income rate can be leveraged similar to yield bearing asset.&#x20;
* **Community building** - Unique Artist/Label/Community tokens can be used to reward and engage with fans - granting access to content, physical goods and events; OWN allows creators to monitor realtime activity of their fanbase on-chain and insightfully manage scarcity and token design in relation to the actual content consumption&#x20;
* **NFT music player apps** - Exclusive content streamed on permissioned services based on token-gated access to their community.
* **Artist and collaborator credits** - Verifiable credentials for creators can be stored on-chain. Protecting creator's rights, providing immutable records, and help solidify the trust-worthiness of music IP backed digital assets.
* **Artist funding** - Crowdfunding new releases or even Vinyl Pressing and merchandise; binding together owners of an NFT collection on the OWN protocol, rights holders can help finance production and even redistribute earnings to original backers.&#x20;
* **Music used in metaverse applications** - Adding revenue from metaverse sync license to an OWN asset is a simple addition of a recipient address. The OWN network rewards Oracles for reporting usage and revenue.
* **Transferable Reproduction Rights** - Artists can incentivize their fans to promote their brand and earn their part by producing merchandise or vinyl or art by granting a IP rights to entrepreneurial fans who can in turn get an exclusive/regional (or any other construct they can imagine) license to reproduce and sell their work. These license are transferable creating an economy that is driven by the fans
* **Distributed hosting of musical content** - Apart from IPFS storage of the music IP, OWN allows its creators to distribute high quality media files to any distributed storage service or protocol, incentivizing data providers to host and serve content to 3rd party networks.

Ultimately, the OWN protocol is a lean and foundational layer to support the flow of funds from consumers to creators, we are the bridge between the legacy music industry and the WEB 3.0 economy, and between creators and builders - we are sure the are countless applications that can be built using the tools we are creating today and we're excited to see what developers and artists build on top of the OWN protocol.



