# Token Economics

### Token Model

The OWN protocol serves different stakeholders and use cases, all with different goals. For these stakeholders to cooperate and work effectively together toward the common goal of democratizing access to music IP we introduce the $OWN token to incentivize and align interests.

The $OWN token is constructed to coordinate the creation of value of bridging the traditional music industry royalty payment pipes with the web3 world. It captures a portion of that value so as to ensure longevity of the project and long term alignment of interest.

### $OWN Token: overview

$OWN tokens serve four core utilities of the protocol that drive demand for the $OWN token:

* Protocol usage
* Artist features
* Fraud prevention
* Governance representation

Using the protocol requires paying an $OWN fee. This includes creating an Own Media Asset (’OMA’), receiving royalty payments, creating a Wrapped OMA (wOMA) or submitting a fraud proof all require the use of $OWN. These fees are used to reimburse network participants such as oracles for their contributions to the network.

Oracles must stake $OWN tokens as collateral for their participation as the validators of OMAs and transmitters of payments from the traditional music world payment flow on-chain. If an oracle does not fulfill its obligations, a valid fraud proof can be submitted and accepted by protocol governance and the oracles’ stake is partially slashed. Staked $OWN will also enable greater participation in protocol governance.

In the future, $OWN tokens could be staked by fans to access a series of artist benefits such as artist vaults (backed by OMAs), artist tokens and other features that artists choose to link to their OMAs. All participants in the protocol are incentivized to operate towards the common goal of bringing their music IP royalty flows to the protocol and thus increasing the volume of transaction fees generated by the protocol.
